Minimum and maximum on the lower, upper, and usual Dedekind real numbers (#1335)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/real-numbers/minimum-upper-dedekind-real-numbers.lagda.md

```agda
{-# OPTIONS --lossy-unification #-}

module real-numbers.minimum-upper-dedekind-real-numbers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.strict-inequality-rational-numbers

open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.disjunction
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.inhabited-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.powersets
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.unions-subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import logic.functoriality-existential-quantification

open import order-theory.greatest-lower-bounds-large-posets
open import order-theory.large-inflattices
open import order-theory.lower-bounds-large-posets

open import real-numbers.inequality-upper-dedekind-real-numbers
open import real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers
```

</details>

## Idea

> The minimum of two

Reviewer: Please add a concept invocation on "minimum"

> [upper Dedekind real numbers](real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers.md) `x`,
> `y` is a upper Dedekind real number with cut equal to the union of the cuts of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[upper Dedekind real numbers](real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers.md) `x` and
`y` is a upper Dedekind real number with cut equal to the union of the cuts of
```

> `x` and `y`. Unlike the case for the
> [maximum of upper Dedekind real numbers](real-numbers.maximum-upper-dedekind-real-numbers.md),
> the minimum of any inhabited family of upper Dedekind real numbers, the upper
> Dedekind real number whose cut is union of the cuts of every element of the
> family, is also a upper Dedekind real number.

Reviewer: This last sentence is hard to parse. I suggest either removing the middle mention of the definition of the minimum, or adding it as a second sentence.

E.g.
```suggestion
`x` and `y`. Unlike the case for the
[maximum of upper Dedekind real numbers](real-numbers.maximum-upper-dedekind-real-numbers.md),
the minimum of any inhabited family of upper Dedekind real numbers is also an upper Dedekind real number.
```

## Definition

### Binary minimum

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (x : upper-ℝ l1)
  (y : upper-ℝ l2)
  where

  cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ : subtype (l1 ⊔ l2) ℚ
  cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ = union-subtype (cut-upper-ℝ x) (cut-upper-ℝ y)

  is-inhabited-cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ : exists ℚ cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ
  is-inhabited-cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ =
    map-tot-exists
      ( λ _ → inl-disjunction)
      ( is-inhabited-cut-upper-ℝ x)

>   is-rounded-cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ :

Reviewer: please factor out the forward and backward directions, and mark this entry as `abstract`

      ( λ r (q<r , r<min) →
        elim-disjunction
          ( cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ q)
          ( λ r<x →
            inl-disjunction
              ( backward-implication
                ( is-rounded-cut-upper-ℝ x q)
                ( intro-exists r (q<r , r<x))))
          ( λ r<y →
            inr-disjunction
              ( backward-implication
                ( is-rounded-cut-upper-ℝ y q)
                ( intro-exists r (q<r , r<y))))
          ( r<min))

  binary-min-upper-ℝ : upper-ℝ (l1 ⊔ l2)
  binary-min-upper-ℝ =
    cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ ,
    is-inhabited-cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ ,
    is-rounded-cut-binary-min-upper-ℝ
```

### Minimum of an inhabited family of upper Dedekind real numbers

```agda
module _
  {l1 l2 : Level}
  (A : UU l1)
  (H : is-inhabited A)
  (F : A → upper-ℝ l2)
  where

  cut-min-upper-ℝ : subtype (l1 ⊔ l2) ℚ
  cut-min-upper-ℝ = union-family-of-subtypes (cut-upper-ℝ ∘ F)

  is-inhabited-cut-min-upper-ℝ : exists ℚ cut-min-upper-ℝ
  is-inhabited-cut-min-upper-ℝ =
    rec-trunc-Prop
      ( ∃ ℚ cut-min-upper-ℝ)
      ( λ a →
        map-tot-exists
          ( λ _ → intro-exists a)
          ( is-inhabited-cut-upper-ℝ (F a)))
      ( H)

>   is-rounded-cut-min-upper-ℝ :

Reviewer: Please factor out the forward and backward directions, and mark this entry as `abstract`

open import elementary-number-theory.strict-inequality-rational-numbers

open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.disjunction
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.inhabited-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.powersets
open import foundation.propositional-truncations
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.unions-subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import logic.functoriality-existential-quantification

open import order-theory.greatest-lower-bounds-large-posets
open import order-theory.large-inflattices
open import order-theory.lower-bounds-large-posets

open import real-numbers.inequality-upper-dedekind-real-numbers
open import real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers
```

</details>

## Idea

The
{{#concept "minimum" Disambiguation="binary, upper Dedekind real numbers" Agda=binary-min-upper-ℝ WD="minimum" WDID=Q10585806}}
of two
[upper Dedekind real numbers](real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers.md) `x`

> and `y` is a upper Dedekind real number with cut equal to the union of the cuts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `y` is an upper Dedekind real number with cut equal to the union of the cuts
```
